**Pretest**
//<Q>
1. Which of the following are symptoms of hypoglycemia?
(A) tachycardia and trembling
(B) bradycardia and diaphoresis
(C) anxiety and flushed, dry skin
(D) flushed, dry skin and tachycardia

2. Which of the following is TRUE for a patient who has had a right-sided stroke
and develops increased intracranial pressure?
(A) The pupils will change before the level of consciousness does, there will be right-sided
paralysis, the eyes will be deviated to the left, and there will be a left pupil change.
(B) The pupils will change before the level of consciousness does, there will be left-sided
(C) The level of consciousness will change before there will be pupil changes, there
paralysis, the eyes will be deviated to the right, and there will be a right pupil change.
will be right-sided paralysis, the eyes will be deviated to the left, and there will be
a left pupil change.
(D) The level of consciousness will change before there will be pupil changes, there will be left-sided paralysis, the eyes will be deviated to the right, and there will be
a right pupil change.

3. A patient status-post head trauma has an ICP of 32 mmHg. Which of the following
interventions is contraindicated for this patient?
(A) Provide enteral feeding via a nasal tube.
(B) Elevate the head of bed 30-45 degrees.
(C) Maintain MAP 50-60 mmHg.
(D) Avoid hypotonic intravenous solutions.

4. Which of the following is associated with mitral regurgitation?
(A) systolic murmur, sinus bradycardia
(B) diastolic murmur, heart failure
(C) systolic murmur, inferior wall myocardial infarct
(D) diastolic murmur, complete heart block

5. A nurse knows that research supports a patient having unresrestricted access to his or her designated
 support person (according to the patients wishes). However, the nurse's unit 
 restricts all patient visitors to set times. The nurse's best response would be to:
(A) gather the facts and propose a policy change to the manager for the unit.
(B) tell patients/visitors that the unit's policy is outdated but there is nothing that
can be done about it.
(C) continue to follow the unit policy.
(D) complain to colleagues about the unit's outdated policy.

6. Nitrate therapy is indicated for the treatment of unstable angina and acute heart
failure because it:
(A) decreases preload and increases myocardial O2 demand.
(B) increases preload and increases myocardial O2 demand.
(C) increases preload and decreases myocardial O2 demand.
(D) decreases preload and decreases myocardial O2 demand.

7. A patient post-op CABG had a sudden decrease in mediastinal chest tube drainage
with hypotension, narrowing pulse pressure, and respiratory variation on the arterial
waveform (pulsus paradoxus). What other signs or symptoms would the nurse anticipate that this patient might exhibit?
(A) muffled heart sounds
(B) decreased central venous pressure and increased pulmonary artery occlusion pressure
(C) flat neck veins
(D) ripping mid-scapular back pain

8. A patient has just consented to a bedside chest tube insertion and requests that his
wife be allowed to be present during the procedure. The nurse should:
(A) explain to the patient that this is against infection control practices.
(B) tell the patient he will be able to see his wife as soon as the procedure is completed.
(C) tell the patient it would be too much for his wife to handle.
(D) prepare the wife for what to expect and allow her to be present.

9. ECG changes associated with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) that affect
the lateral wall would include changes in which of the following leads?
(A) I, III, aVF
(B) V1, V2, V3
(C) V2, V3, V4
(D) V5, V6, I, aVL

10. Which of the following laboratory findings are most specifically indicative of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) as the cause of bleeding?
(A) elevated fibrin split products and D-dimer
(B) prolonged PT, PTT, and bleeding time
(C) decreased platelet count
(D) decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit

11. A 29-year-old female has been in the critical care unit for 2 days after a motor vehicle
crash, and she has developed acute tubular necrosis (ATN). She was normotensive
upon admission. What would be the most likely cause of her ATN?
(A) hemorrhage
(B) rhabdomyolysis
(C) creatinine release
(D) cardiac dysrhythmias

12. A patient with chronic kidney disease presented to the ED with complaints of shortness
of breath and mouth twitching after missing two dialysis sessions. The nurse
noted carpopedal spasm when the BP cuff was inflated. In addition to treatment of
heart failure, which of the following would the nurse expect might need to be administered?
(A) calcium gluconate (to correct hypocalcemia)
(B) potassium (to correct hypokalemia)
(C) aluminum hydroxide (to correct hyperphosphatemia)
(D) magnesium hydroxide (to correct hypermagnesemia)

13. A patient with a history of opioid and alcohol abuse is admitted for treatment of cellulitis.
The patient has flushed, slightly moist skin and is slow to respond to verbal
stimuli. The affected arm is edematous and hard to the touch, with yellow exudates
noted from puncture wounds on the skin. The patient's vital signs are as follows: temperature 
is 102°F (38.9°C); BP is 88/50; heart rate is 120 beats/minute; respiratory rate
is 26 breaths/minute. The nurse should anticipate orders for:
(A) antibiotic and crystalloid administration.
(B) antipyretic and dopamine administration.
(C) a CT scan of the head and a drug screen.
(D) colloid administration followed by norepinephrine administration.


14. A patient with a history of hyperlipidemia and alcohol abuse reports left upper quadrant 
abdominal pain. The patient's vital signs are as follows: temperature is 101°F
(38.3C); BP is 85/50; heart rate is l10 beats/minute; respiratory rate is 24
breaths/minute. Which of the following lab values should the nurse anticipate?
(A) decreased serum amylase level and increased WBC count
(B) decreased hematocrit (HCT) and increased lipase level
(C) decreased sedimentation rate and elevated calcium level
(D) increased LDH and increased SGOT (AST)

15. A patient is admitted with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), The arterial blood gas (ABG)
on room air shows:
pH: 7.22
PaCO: 21 mmHg
pO: 94 mmHg
HCO: 11 mmol/L
The ABG demonstrates:
(A) compensated metabolic alkalosis.
(B) compensated respiratory acidosis.
(C) partially compensated metabolic acidosis.
(D) uncompensated metabolic acidosis.

16. What is the recommended initial position to improve oxygenation for a patient with 
unilateral pneumonia?
(A) Trendelenburg position
(B) supine position
(C) side lying on affected side
(D) side lying on unaffected side

17. A patient is admitted with a respiratory infection. The patient has shortness of breath
with a frequent productive cough and is expectorating light-green sputum. Vital signs
are stable, except for the temperature, which is 39°C, and an increased respiratory
rate. The nurse should anticipate which of the following ABG results?
(A) respiratory acidosis
(B) respiratory alkalosis
(C) metabolic acidosis
(D) metabolic alkalosis

18. A patient has been receiving mechanical ventilation for 2 days, but the nurse notices
that there is no order for nutrition. The nurse's best response would be to:
(A) insert a feeding tube and begin enteral nutritional therapy.
(B) complain about the physician's practice patterns to her colleagues.
(C) ask the physician for an order for enteral feeding for the patient.
(D) assume it is the physician's responsibility for the nutritional plan of care

19. Which of the following critically ill patients is most at risk for development of a
pressure injury?
(A) the 66-year-old patient receiving three vasopressors
(B) the patient receiving mechanical ventilation
(C) the 81-year-old patient with an acute anterior MI
(D) the patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome

20. In a patient with acute lung injury (ALD), which of the following contributes to the
development of atelectasis?
(A) loss of surfactant and interstitial fluid accumulation
(B) increased pulmonary vascular resistance and hypoxemia
(C) increased pulmonary compliance and hypoxemia
(D) mucosal edema and mucus plugging

21. All of the following are features of an acute subarachnoid hemorrhage EXCEPT:
(A) a sudden explosive headache.
(B) nuchal rigidity.
(C) a decreased level of consciousness
(D) pinpoint pupils.

22. A patient is status-post inferior wall ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), with
a right ventricular infarction and right ventricular failure. Which of the following data
would be consistent with this patient's condition? Note that PAP = pulmonary artery
pressure, PAOP = pulmonary artery occlusion pressure, and CVP = central venous
pressure.
(A) elevated PAP; elevated PAOP; elevated CVP; ST elevation in II, II, and aVF; crackles bilaterally
(B) elevated PAP; elevated PAOP; elevated CVP; ST elevation in V2-V6; clear lungs
(C) normal PAP; normal PAOP; elevated CVP; ST elevation in II, II, and aVF; clear lungs
(D) normal PAP; elevated PAOP; elevated CVP; ST elevation in V2-V6; crackles bilaterally

23. Which of the following hemodynamic profiles would best exemplify that seen in septic
shock? Note that PAP = pulmonary artery pressure, PAOP = pulmonary artery occlusion pressure, 
CVP= central venous pressure, and SVR= systemic vascular resistance.
(A) PAP 20/4; PAOP 3; CVP 0; SVR 1,400
(B) PAP 22/6; PAOP 5; CVP 1; SVR 600
(C) PAP 45/22; PAOP 21; CVP8; SVR 1,800
(D) PAP 55/25; PAOP 15; CVP 10; SVR 1,200

24. Which of the following patients is least likely to return to a normal level of functioning
after discharge?
(A) The 70-year-old who was admitted with septic shock and is receiving chemotherapy
(B) The 75-year-old who was admitted for a scheduled coronary artery bypass graft procedure
(C) The 21-year-old trauma patient who was admitted with a pneumothorax and a fractured pelvis
(D) The 65-year-old who was admitted with an acute MI and a history of diabetes

25. Which of the following statements is TRUE?
(A) Delirium is a permanent condition.
(B) A patient who develops delirium has an increased risk of mortality.
(C) Most patients with delirium are agitated.
(D) A patient with dementia cannot develop delirium.

//<A>
1. (A)
2. (D)
3. (C)
4. (C)
5. (A)
6. (D)
7. (A)
8. (D)
9. (D)
10. (A)
11. (B)
12. (C)
13. (A)
14. (B)
15. (C)
16. (D)
17. (B)
18. (C)
19. (A)
20. (A)
21. (D)
22. (C)
23. (B)
24. (A)
25. (B)

//<E>
1. (A) When the blood glucose drops, sympathetic stimulation occurs. (Symptoms are
masked for a patient who is receiving beta-adrenergic blocker drugs.) Flushed, dry skin
is a sign of hyperglycemia.

2. (D) Higher brain centers (cerebral cortex) are the first to be affected by increased intracranial 
pressure. Therefore, the level of consciousness is the first sign (the one exception 
to that rule is epidural hematoma). Pupil changes are ipsilateral (same side as the
injury) due to compression of cranial nerve II against the transtentorial notch. Motor
changes are contralateral (opposite side of the injury) due to motor fiber crossing in
the brain stem.

3. (C) The patient has an elevated ICP. and the patient requires a MAP greater than 50-60
mmHg in order to maintain cerebral perfusion pressure and prevent brain ischemia.
The remaining interventions listed in choices (A), (B), and (D) are indicated for a
patient with an elevated ICP.

4. (C) Inferior wall MI may result in ischemia and dysfunction (regurgitation) of the
mitral valve. The mitral valve is closed during systole (left ventricular ejection). A murmur 
is produced when the mitral valve is not fully closed during systole.

5. (A) The AACN Synergy Model supports patient advocacy. Unrestricted access to a designated 
support person (according to the patient's wishes) is an evidence-based practice 
that is included in the "Family Presence: Visitation in the Adult ICU" AACN Practice
Alert. Choice (A) is an effective strategy for change.

6. (D) Nitrates cause venodilation, which results in a decrease in venous return to the
heart (left ventricular preload reduction). The decrease in preload decreases the work
of the left ventricle and the myocardial oxygen demand.

7. (A) The patient history and signs and symptoms are indicative of cardiac tamponade,
and muffled heart sounds are another sign. Cardiac tamponade is not characterized by
a decrease in CVP and an increase in PAOP (choice (B)) or flat neck veins (choice (C),
nor does it cause back pain (choice (D).

8. (D) The AACN Synergy Model supports caring practices and family presence. An
AACN Practice Alert indicates that family presence may improve the patient outcome.

9. (D) V5 and V6 represent the lower lateral wall of the left ventricle, and I and aVL represent 
the high lateral wall of the left ventricle, supplied by the left circumflex artery in
most of the population.

10. (A) DIC is a clotting problem, with massive coagulation. As clots break down, fibrin
split products are produced. Therefore, with DIC, FSPs will be high. In fact, this is the
most specific test result for DIC. D-dimer is present due to the presence of clots. While
not specific for DIC, it is a good rule-out test.

11. (B) The motor vehicle crash most likely resulted in a crush injury with destruction of
skeletal muscle cells (rhabdomyolysis). This results in the release of massive amounts
of creatine kinase (CK) that, in turn, may"clog" renal tubules and lead to acute tubular
necrosis (ATN). Choice (A) is not correct, as there is no history of bleeding. Choice (C),
creatinine release, is too vague, could be minor, and does not cause ATN. Cardiac dysrhythmias, 
choice (D), are not included in this scenario.

12. (C) A patient with chronic kidney disease, who has missed dialysis treatments, is
susceptible to the electrolyte imbalance of hyperphosphatemia; therefore, a phosphate-binding 
drug like aluminum hydroxide (Amphojel) is indicated. Renal disease
does not lead to hypocalcemia (choice (A) Or hypokalemia (choice (B). Hypermagnesemia 
(choice (D) may be caused by kidney injury, but hyperreflexia (such as carpopedal 
spasm) is not a sign of elevated serum magnesium.

13. (A) This scenario describes septic shock. The patient emergently needs antibiotics
and crystalloid administration. The other 3 choices are not as effective as choice (A) is
for septic shock.

14. (B) This scenario describes acute pancreatitis, which may be hemorrhagic and could
cause the hematocrit to drop. Serum lipase increases with acute pancreatitis.

15. (C) The pH is low; there is an acidosis. The low bicarbonate indicates that the acidosis
is metabolic. Bicarbonate drops as it is attempting to buffer the excess ketoacids. The
low PaC0, is evidence that the lungs are attempting to compensate with hyperventilation, 
or "blowing off acid." However, compensation is only partial, not complete. (The
pH would need to be normal, 7.35, for full compensation.)

16. (D) It is best to place the "good" lung down and have the patient on the side that does
not have the problem. This is because more blood perfusion is greater to the "down"
side due to gravity. If more blood goes to the "bad" side, hypoxemia may occur.

17. (B) The increased respiratory rate generally causes hyperventilation, "blowing off
Co2," resulting in a decrease in the PaCO2, and a rise in the pH. Tachypnea does not
guarantee hyperventilation. However, nothing in the history of this scenario indicates
acidosis or metabolic alkalosis.

18. (C) Early nutritional therapy for a patient who is receiving mechanical ventilation
improves the patient outcome. Knowledge of evidence-based practices, however, is
not enough. A critical care nurse needs to advocate for the patient using strategies that
work. Collaboration (a part of the AACN Synergy Model) with the physician would be
most likely to provide the patient with what he needs.

19. (A) A patient who requires three vasopressors is experiencing profound shock with 
poor perfusion to the skin, increasing the risk of a pressure injury over a shorter period
of time. The remaining patients are at risk for a pressure injury, but not as great (or as
rapidly) as that of the patient who requires multiple vasopressors.

20. (A) The pathophysiology of acute lung injury includes damage to the Type II alveolar
cells (which results in alveolar collapse) and capillary leak (which results in interstitial 
fluid accumulation). Both alveolar collapse and interstitial fluid lead to atelectasis.
Although mucosal edema and mucus plugging may lead to atelectasis, these problems
are not associated with acute lung injury.

21. (D) Pinpoint pupils are associated with pontine infarcts. The other 3 choices are fea-
tures of an acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.

22. (C) When the right ventricle (RV) fails, the pressure that is proximal to the RV (CVP)
increases, whereas pressures that are distal to the RV (pulmonary artery pressure and
pulmonary artery occlusion pressure) are normal or even low. This results in clear
lungs. ECG changes that are indicative of an inferior wall MI are found in leads II, III,
and aVF.

23. (B) The pathophysiology of septic shock includes capillary leak, which decreases
intravascular volume (low CVP and relative hypovolemia), and massive vasodilatation,
which decreases systemic vascular resistance (low SVR).

24. (A) The AACN believes that a critical care nurse should assess not only the patient's
physiological status but also the patient's resiliency, which has been shown to affect the
outcome. In addition to acute problems, extremes of age and chronic conditions also
need to be considered.

25. (B) Studies have shown that delirium produces long-term effects. They also indicate
that the more severe the delirium is, the worse is the long-term outcome. The other 3
choices are NOT true regarding delirium.
